
. Open the application.

2. Login with valid user credentials.

3. Search the course which user has enrolled already.

4. Click on the course card.

5. Verify if the hamburger menu is displayed to the user on completion of 100%.

6. Click on the "Sync progress now" button.

Step1:

Launch the application on the Android emulator.
Locate and tap the Profile tab in the bottom navigation bar.
IF Login button not visible, execute vertical scroll gestures (swipe upward) until the blue LOGIN button element is visible in the viewport.
ELSE IF Tap the LOGIN button element.

Locate the email input field and enter "user2@yopmail.com".
Locate the password input field and enter "User2@123".
Tap the LOGIN button to authenticate.

Step2:

Look for search icon (magnifying lens) at the bottom nav bar and click
Once the search bar is visible at the top click and search for "Test Course for 6th January" and Click on the course card
LOOP until the "Your Progress" section is shown as "You have successfully completed this course" && New open appears When clicked on the 3 dots and button for "Sync Progress now" is accessible
{
    LOOP until each Course module shows green check mark next to the card
    {
    Click on Continue Learning and Complete each Course Units present under the 
    "Course modules" section. Click on individual Course Unit tabs
    IF Content type=="HTLM", THEN Click and view the content
    IF Content type=="PDF", THEN Click 
    LOOP until Individual Course Unit has gren circle tick mark
    {
        Click and open the course unit and click the play button and view the content
        IF Contents type=="PDF"
            THEN view the content and click right arrow (screen will auto switch to lanscape mode) and wait till
            you see completed screen and then exit.
         IF Content type=="HTLM"
            THEN view content and (screen will auto switch to lanscape mode)
            click on the hamburger botton on the top left and click exit
        Click back button until reach the Main course page which has the course Modules listed
        IF any unwated screen pops up, THEN Click the cross button
    }
    }
}


Prompt:

TEST SUITE: Course Progress Sync Verification

PRECONDITIONS:
- Android emulator is running
- Application is installed
- Test course "Test Course for 6th January" exists in the system
- User credentials: user2@yopmail.com / User2@123

---

STEP 1: USER AUTHENTICATION
1. Launch the application on the Android emulator
2. Locate and tap the "Profile" tab in the bottom navigation bar
3. Check if LOGIN button is visible on screen:
   IF LOGIN button NOT visible:
      - Execute vertical scroll gestures (swipe upward from coordinates bottom 80% to top 20%) until the blue LOGIN button element is visible in the viewport
   ENDIF
4. Tap the LOGIN button element
5. Locate the email input field (by resource-id, accessibility-id, or xpath) and enter "user2@yopmail.com"
6. Locate the password input field (by resource-id, accessibility-id, or xpath) and enter "User2@123"
7. Tap the LOGIN button to authenticate
8. Wait for successful authentication (verify home screen or profile loaded)

---

STEP 2: NAVIGATE TO TEST COURSE
1. Locate and tap the search icon (magnifying glass) in the bottom navigation bar
2. Wait until search bar appears at the top of the screen
3. Tap on the search input field
4. Enter text "Test Course for 6th January" into the search field
5. Wait for search results to load
6. Locate the course card with title "Test Course for 6th January" in search results
7. Tap on the course card to open course details

---

STEP 3: COMPLETE COURSE TO 100% AND VERIFY KEBAB MENU
OUTER_LOOP: WHILE (Progress section does NOT show "You have successfully completed this course")
{
    INNER_LOOP: FOR EACH course module in "Course modules" section
    {
        1. Verify if course module has green checkmark icon next to it
        2. IF module does NOT have green checkmark:
           {
               a. Tap "Continue Learning" button (if visible)
               b. Tap on the individual Course Module card to expand
               
               UNIT_LOOP: FOR EACH Course Unit within the module
               {
                   i. Tap on the Course Unit to open it
                   ii. Identify content type (HTML, PDF, or Video)
                   
                   IF Content type == "HTML":
                   {
                       - Tap to view the HTML content
                       - Wait for screen to auto-rotate to landscape mode
                       - Allow content to load completely
                       - Tap the hamburger menu button (top-left corner)
                       - Tap "Exit" option from menu
                   }
                   
                   IF Content type == "PDF":
                   {
                       - Tap on the PDF content
                       - Wait for screen to auto-rotate to landscape mode
                       - Perform swipe gestures from right to left to navigate through pages
                       - Continue swiping until "Completed" screen appears
                       - Wait for completion confirmation (2-3 seconds)
                       - Tap back/close button to exit PDF viewer
                   }
                   
                   IF Content type == "Video":
                   {
                       - Tap on the video content to open player
                       - Tap the play button to start video
                       - Wait for screen to auto-rotate to landscape mode
                       - Monitor for green circle checkmark icon on the unit
                       - Wait until video completes or unit shows completion status
                       - Tap back button to exit video player
                   }

                   
                   iii. Verify Course Unit now displays green circle tick mark
                   iv. Tap back button to return to Course Module list
                   v. IF unexpected popup/modal appears:
                       - Locate close button (X icon, typically top-right)
                       - Tap close button to dismiss
                   
               } END UNIT_LOOP
               
               c. Verify all units in current module show green checkmarks
               d. Navigate back to main course page showing all Course Modules
           }
        3. ELSE IF module already has green checkmark:
           - Skip to next module
           
    } END INNER_LOOP
    
    4. Scroll to top of course page to check "Your Progress" section
    5. Verify progress percentage or completion message
    
} END OUTER_LOOP

---

STEP 4: VERIFY KEBAB MENU APPEARS AT 100% COMPLETION (TEST CASE 1)
1. Scroll to "Your Progress" section on the course page
2. Verify text displays: "You have successfully completed this course"
3. Locate kebab menu icon (three vertical dots) in the course progress section
4. Assert kebab menu IS visible
5. CHECKPOINT: Test Case 1 PASSED - "Kebab menu is displayed at 100% completion"

---

STEP 5: VERIFY "SYNC PROGRESS NOW" OPTION STATUS (TEST CASE 2)
1. Tap on the kebab menu icon (three dots)
2. Wait for menu options to appear
3. Locate "Sync progress now" option in the menu
4. Verify "Sync progress now" option IS enabled/accessible (not grayed out or disabled)
5. Assert the option can be interacted with
6. CHECKPOINT: Test Case 2 PASSED - "Sync progress now is enabled at 100% completion"

---

STEP 6: VERIFY SYNC FUNCTIONALITY (TEST CASE 3)
1. With kebab menu still open (or re-open if closed)
2. Tap on "Sync progress now" option
3. Wait for sync operation to execute (watch for loading indicator, toast message, or progress update)
4. Verify one of the following success indicators:
   - Toast message appears confirming sync (e.g., "Progress synced successfully")
   - Loading spinner appears and disappears
   - Progress timestamp updates
   - Sync status indicator changes
5. Assert sync operation completed without errors
6. CHECKPOINT: Test Case 3 PASSED - "Progress synced successfully"

---

STEP 7: CLEANUP & VALIDATION
1. Tap back button or close course view
2. Return to home screen or profile
3. Optional: Re-open course to verify sync persisted
4. Log out of application (if required for test isolation)

---

EXPECTED RESULTS VALIDATION:
✓ Test Case 1: Kebab menu visible at 100% course completion
✓ Test Case 2: "Sync progress now" option is enabled (not disabled) at 100% completion
✓ Test Case 3: Sync operation executes successfully when tapped

---

ERROR HANDLING:
- IF any element not found within 10 seconds timeout: Log error and capture screenshot
- IF unexpected dialog/popup blocks flow: Attempt to dismiss and retry step
- IF app crashes: Relaunch app and resume from last checkpoint
- IF network error during sync: Retry sync operation up to 3 times

---

NOTES FOR APPIUM IMPLEMENTATION:
- Use explicit waits (WebDriverWait) for dynamic elements
- Implement scroll helper function with TouchAction or UiScrollable
- Capture screenshots at each checkpoint for test evidence
- Use resource-id or accessibility-id locators preferably over XPath
- Set implicit wait timeout to 10 seconds
- Enable auto-rotation handling in capabilities
- Consider video recording entire test execution for debugging